Introduce the ViewComponent pattern (#141)
BiggerPockets/patterns: _patterns/build-views-with-view-components.md

---
categories: Rails
name: Build views with view components
---

When working on the view layer in the application (app/views) prefer using view
components over the alternatives:

* Partials
* ERB files with business logic
* Helpers
* Decorators

### Flexible components

Make sure to generalize your use case so that the component can be used in any
part of the application.

> 

Reviewer: I do think it's OK to start with a specific component and then extract the reusable bits. Then again, maybe if it's too-specific, it shouldn't be a component. I just want to encourage people to stick to the middle ground: use a view component if you think others could benefit from reusing it. Otherwise, use a partial or a namespaced component.

Author: >  do think it's OK to start with a specific component and then extract the reusable bits. Then again, maybe if it's too-specific, it shouldn't be a component. I just want to encourage people to stick to the middle ground: use a view component if you think others could benefit from reusing it.

@bockets, the goal is to encourage us to think about how we can make our work more reusable instead of blindly creating a feature specific and missing the opportunity to save time for our future selves.

In order to make components more reusable the library provides us with concepts like
the `content` helper and [slots](https://viewcomponent.org/guide/slots.html).

> Always prefer extending component or composing new ones with existing ones over 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prefer extending component or composing new ones with existing ones over 
```

creating additional components. Feature specific components are welcomed, but they 
should be composed by other reusable components. There are more details on this topic 
[here](https://viewcomponent.org/viewcomponents-at-github.html#the-two-types-of-viewcomponents-we-write).

> Here's an example that help illustrate how components can be flexible:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example that illustrates how components can be flexible:
```

#### Bad
```rb
<%= render BigButton.new(text: "Big button") %>

> <%= render ButtonWithIcon.new(text: "Button name", icon: "assets/icons/star.svg") %>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<%= render ButtonWithIcon.new(text: "Button with icon", icon: "assets/icons/star.svg") %>
```

```

#### Good
```rb
<%= render Button.new(text: "Big button", size: :large) %>

> <%= render Button.new(text: "Button name") do |component| %>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<%= render Button.new(text: "Button with icon") do |component| %>
```

  <% component.with_leading_icon(icon: "assets/icons/star.svg") %>
<% end %>

> ```

Reviewer: Huh, I would have thought that the icon-ness of a Button would be best expressed with a simple named argument, but I guess this compositional style allows you to place the icon anywhere.

I think that rubyists shy away from too many named args too much.

Where does the `with_leading_icon` get declared? In this example, it looks generic: _any_ component could take that as an argument, but does it really work for any component? My preference would be:

```rb
Button.new(text: "Button name", with_leading_icon: "assets/icon/star.svg")

Reviewer 2: Dyego created an Icon component that receives an icon_name as an input and used it in the SelectableCards component by passing it the icon_name [here](https://github.com/BiggerPockets/biggerpockets/blob/96a654dc02a349db634fa7d080d8d99c8e613437/app/components/thumbnail_box_component.rb#L7), so wdyt about changing this to match what is implemented?

Reviewer: I like Dyego's solution. I think positioning an icon in a button can be done two ways: composition or an argument. I like both, and maybe we support both, but there should be a simple happy path for prepending/appending an icon to a button since it will be done again and again and again.

Author: Done!

### Tested components

Make sure that view components are tested. The ViewComponent library introduces a
new type of test (`type: :component`) which pulls in a few useful helpers that
make testing components quite easy.

Familiarize yourself with [view component testing](https://viewcomponent.org/guide/testing.html).

#### Why is it important to test view components?

- It reduces the number of necessary system tests.
- View component tests are much faster than system tests.
- These tests allow us to easily check for edge cases.

Here's an example that help illustrate how simple a component test can be:

```rb
# app/components/table_component.rb
class TableComponent < ApplicationComponent
  def initialize(collection:)

>     @collection = collection

Reviewer: Can we use a different name than `collection` for the example? That name implies slots, but the example doesn't use slots.

  end

  def render?
    @collection.any?
  end
end

# spec/components/table_component_spec.rb
RSpec.describe TableComponent, type: :component do
  it "is not rendered when the collection is empty" do
    render_inline(TableComponent.new(collection: []))
    expect(page).not_to have_selector("table")
  end
end
```

### Styled components

Avoid using writting CSS when building view components. We're moving away
from using custom CSS files and using [Tailwind](https://tailwindcss.com) 
instead. If you're having a hard time styling a component using Tailwind reach 
out to someone from the design team to discuss making adjustments to the 
component.

> Here's an example that help illustrate how using Tailwind looks as opposed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here's an example that illustrates how using Tailwind looks as opposed
```

to writting custom CSS:

#### Bad
```css
# app/components/button.scss
.button {
  &-content { ... }
  &-label { ... }
}
```
```rb
# app/components/button.html.erb
<button type="button" class="button">
  <span class="button-content">
    <span class="button-label">Button text</span>
  </span>
</button>
```

> #### Good

Reviewer 3: Small tweak - can we consistently have blank lines after headings in Markdown? Makes no difference to the preview but makes it much easier on the eye to edit...

```suggestion
#### Good

```

```rb
# app/components/button.html.erb

> <button type="button" class="inline-flex items-center rounded-md border border-transparent bg-indigo-600 px-4 py-2 text-sm font-medium text-white shadow-sm">

Reviewer: Missing dark-mode :trollface:

  Button text
</button>
```

> 

Reviewer 4: I couldn't use a code block inside the suggestion block

```suggestion

### Dynamic styling with Tailwind

Some components may require different styling based on their state or arguments passed to them, and this can be a challenge to handle when working Tailwind because it [requires CSS classes to be spelled out](https://github.com/rails/tailwindcss-rails#class-names-must-be-spelled-out).

In order to make this work we need to define and spell out all CSS classes a component can use by using methods on the component ruby class.

#### Bad

This will not work:

```ruby
class Button
  def initialize(scheme:)
    @scheme = scheme
  end
  
  def scheme_color
    scheme == :primary ? "blue" : "white"
  end
end
ruby```

```erb
`<input class="bg-<%= scheme_color %>" />`
erb```

#### Good

```ruby
class Button
  def initialize(scheme:)
    @scheme = scheme
  end
  
  def scheme_color_class
    scheme == :primary ? "bg-blue" : "bg-white"
  end
end
ruby```

```erb
`<input class="<%= scheme_color_class %>" />`
erb```

```

### Shared components

Always check [our custom component library](https://www.biggerpockets.com/lookbook) 

> before creating a new one. The goal of our component library is not to grow 
> indefinitely but instead to provide the building blocks to implement the view layer 
> of all user facing features.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
before creating a new one. The goal of our component library is to succinctly provide
the minimum building blocks necessary for implementing the view layer of all user facing features.
```

> To make sure new components are included in the component library
> a [component preview](https://viewcomponent.org/guide/previews.html) is required. 
> Previews should include [annotations](https://lookbook.build/guide/previews/annotating/) 
> and parameter descriptions. It should also ideally present the default use of 
> the component along with common variations. Component previews automatically get 
> included in the Lookbook.

Reviewer 3: To make this more scannable, convert to bullets:

```suggestion
* To make sure new components are included in the component library a [component preview](https://viewcomponent.org/guide/previews.html) is required
* Previews should include [annotations](https://lookbook.build/guide/previews/annotating/) 
and parameter descriptions
* Annotations should present the default use of the component along with common variations
* Component previews automatically get included in the Lookbook
```

Author: Done!
